---
title: Preoccupied
category: notes
permalink: /notes/11
---

Ethan [shared](https://ethanmarcotte.com/stream/){: .b-link } Jenny's post on [choosing friction](https://phirephoenix.com/blog/2025-10-11/friction){: .b-link }
and I faintly recalled a scene from Jurassic Park. It was during the 
presentation scene where Malcom (Goldblum) says to the owner and 
scientists,

>Malcolm: Don't you see the danger, John, inherent in what you're 
doing here. Genetic power is the most awesome force the planet's ever 
seen but you wield it like a kid that's found his dad's gun...I'll 
tell you the problem with the scientific power that you're using here: 
it didn't require any discipline to attain it. You know, you read what 
others had done and you took the next step. You didn't earn the knowledge 
for yourselves so you don't take any responsibility for it. You stood 
on the shoulders of genuises to accomplish something as fast as you 
could and before you even knew what you had, you patented it, packaged 
it and slapped it on a plastic lunchbox and now you're selling it!

>Hammond: I don't think you give us our due credit. Our scientists 
have done things which nobody has ever done before.

>Malcolm: Yeah, but your scientists were so preoccupied with whether 
or not they could, __they didn't stop to think if they should__.

_"Pain does not mean growth, but growth does require pain",_ Jenny says, 
and nothing can be farther from the truth in our age. There's a certain
discipline needed to wield such power from current LLM tools; discipline
gained from frictions we face in life. But what if those who sell us 
LLM tools package it as a friction buster? How can we hope to gain that 
discipline? 

It's also good to ask if these tools' creators stop to think if they 
should have made it the way they did now.
